Special Relativity Asteroids
============================

This 'game' demonstrates time dilation/length contraction and redshift. Game is in quotes
because currently it's not fun.

How To Run
----------

1. Install dependencies. File listing in lib/contents.txt generated by
      lib/update.sh
  Get the right jars for your system.
  Some of the files listed in contents.platform.txt may not be necessary. YMMV

  Libs:
  - [JOGL](http://jogamp.org/)
  - [junit](https://github.com/junit-team/junit/wiki/Download-and-Install)
  - [Apache Commons Lang3](https://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-lang/download_lang.cgi)

2. Put libs in the lib/ directory.

3. To build:
    make

4. To run:
    make run

5. Controls:
  - Arrow keys to move (turn left/right, accelerate forwards/backwards)
  - E/Q to zoom in/out
  - Right click to autopilot to a destination, left click to cancel

Not much 'gameplay' yet, currently exploring visualizations and game mechanics.

Effects demonstrated
--------------------
- Length contraction
- Time dilation
- Redshift/blueshift (frequency of 'twinkling' changes, not actual color)

TODO
====

- dump autopilot tracking data to csv, analyze to find better planning algorithm

- add AcceleratingTimeline to represent uniform acceleration

Experiments
-----------

- implement position cache and distance cache?

- ellipses split/merge on collision?
  - NOTE: circle-circle collision = point-line collision, r' = r1 + r2

Basic Features
--------------

- create dynamic galaxies that are stable over time
  - fractal galaxy generation?

Procedural Generation
---------------------

- Create a Galaxy that has clusters of stars that are interesting to navigate.

- Use e.g. Perlin noise to create a Galaxy
  - smoothly varying star velocities for stability.
  - smoothly vary density, include large and small stars
  - add randomly chosen colors? smoothly vary hue/saturation of colors?

- OR use fractal generation
  - galaxy has clusters, clusters have systems, systems have stars?
  - more effective with circular/elliptical movement

Physics Engine
--------------

- implement a lazy physics engine, RK4?
- implement WorldView : the position of all objects in a simulation, as seen by a particular
  observer moving at a particular speed. To simulate, an object should request a WorldView from
  the World, giving its own position and relative velocity, and use that to simulate a timestep.
- implement SimulatedTimeline
    ctor: SimulatedTimeline(Event initialEvent)
    state: ArbitraryTimeline path
    update(Event observer, Velocity velocity, float tMin):
      simulate the path of this timeline until this.end() > tMin as observer by the observer
      moving at velocity. Problem: use seenBy or concurrentWith? seenBy exhibits weird behavior,
      not sure if buggy or just not intuitive.
- write Force abstraction, then in mainLoop
    for (Entity e : entities) {
      for (Force f : e.getForces()) {
        e.accelerate(f, dt)
      }
    }
- add SpringForce
- research GR: what would it take to add gravity?
- research EM: what would it take to add electromagnetic forces? I know electrical forces and
  magnetic forces can be transformed into each other through lorentz transformations, if I
  implement naive "k q1 q2 / d12^2" without magnetism it will be inconsistent when transformed.

